---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Governance
---

Narrative walkthrough (learning - oriented, tutorial)
full technical docs (information - oriented, reference)
how to guides (problem - oriented)
governance deep dive (understanding - oriented, exlplanation)


Questions
Is democracy.externalProposeDefault() is the only way to submit proposals available to both
stakeholders and the Council? Or does the Council at this point have other methods?

## community context:
- project values user facing governance a lot

## tech context: (why these docs now?)
- end of this weekend we're releasing a proposed runtime upgrade
- there will be a period to discuss (shouldn’t take much discussion because it’s on our token release roadmap)
- after this point, any big roadmap changes we need to go through the 
  governance process
- with this release here we’re setting up the initial workflow and make sure 
  we can do governance properly when there are less trivial governance changes that need to be made in the future

## docs notes:
externalProposeDefault 
- there are other ways to create proposals, but they aren't available right now / will be added later (see roadmap). These docs will be updated
as those methods become available). 
- has curved result “adaptive quorum biasing”
- all proposals launched first in forum.manta.network

- Manta is part of the [Polkadot ecosystem](https://polkadot.network/), so it's governance is 
follows the Polkadot governance system. 

- governance by majority of stake (not people involved)
- proposals => refferenda => vote weighted by stake
- refferrenda that pass are automatically implemented after a specified delay period
- can think of as: launch, voting, enactment

### During launch period: ("launch period of the proposal")
- proposals can be generated by:
- anyone with tokens (using the democracy pallet)
- the council (link) (using a "pallet collective instance" ) ??

how to do it:
- create a preimage hash of the proposal
- submit the preimage hash (anything else?) using `democracy.externalProposeDefault()` 
- the proposal gets put in the proposal queue, along with all other proposals during the period (why are there two queues?)
- other token holders can second a proposal with their stake
- at the end of the period, whichever proposal has the most seconds is promoted to referendum
- we only promote one proposal at a time so two opposite proposals don't pass simultaneously

The council can submit proposals in a similar way (see here for more details: )



### During voting period
All token holders get to vote on the referrendum, aye or nay. The % of ayes required 
for the referrendum to pass changes based on turnout. If there's low turnout, the 
threshold to pass is lower, 
and as turnout increases, the threshold increases. For example, if the 
turnout is 25%, then 34% ayes are needed to pass. If the turnout is 100%, then 
51% of ayes are needed (a simple majority). 

This approach to voting is called "Adaptive Quorum Biasing". The idea behind it is
...


### During enactment period
The chain automatically implements a passed referrendum, according to the 
code of the system. There's a delay before the implementation starts so that
stake holders can prepare for the change. 

### A note on the responsibilities of the Council and Technical Committee
The technical committee can fasttrack the launch period in case it is needed. 

The Council can cancel a referrendum, and the Technical Committe can speed up the voting period if needed.
The Technical Committee with unanimous agreement can instantly approve a refferendum.

They can also speed up the enactment period.

Clearly the Council and the Technical Committe have a lot of influence over
what proposals and referrendums get passed! The idea here is that ...



more resources:
- Polkadot blog on governance systems: https://polkadot.network/blog/polkadot-governance/
- Polkadot blog on the governance of the Kusama rollout: https://polkadot.network/blog/kusama-rollout-and-governance/
- Polkadot wiki "Learn Governance": https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-governance
- Polkadot wiki "Participate in Democracy": https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/maintain-guides-democracy
- Manta network technical overview of governance: https://github.com/Manta-Network/Manta/wiki/Governance-Overview

