# ✍️ How to Use Manta Signer

A **Signer** holds a _root secret_ generated by a _seed phrase_ which you encrypt with a _password_. The **Signer** only knows about your root secret when you decrypt it with your password, but if you forget your password, you can use your seed phrase to recover your root secret.

**WARNING: If you forget both your _password_ and _seed phrase_, your accounts cannot be recovered.**

## Signing

The act of using your _root secret_ to create a proof or other certificate of authenticity, is called _signing_. The **Signer** can sign transactions on your behalf by receiving a transaction request and producing a certificate to that request if such a request can be made. For example, if you are using [MariPay](../calamari/MariPay.md) (or [MantaPay](../manta/Overview.md)), you can send the **Signer** a transfer request like:

```text
REQUEST: Send 5 private DOT to Alice.
```

and knowing your balance, the **Signer** can respond with a zero-knowledge proof that you have enough private `DOT` to send to `Alice`, and if you send that proof to the Calamari (or Manta) networks, then `Alice` will be able to spend that private `DOT` that you sent her. 

## How to Request

To send a request to your **Signer** you can use the dApp frontends available for the Calamari and Manta networks. As long as your **Signer** application is open, it will create a _bidirectional local communication channel_ with your browser where it can receive requests and send proofs back. The **Signer** will prompt you for your password whenever you open it and for some transaction types like privately transfering your assets and reclaiming private assets into public ones. Transfer of public assets is handled by the dApp frontend and does not require the use of the **Signer**.

## Handling Errors

Right now the **Signer** is experimental software and may have usability or security issues. If you are having problems using the signer, file an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/Manta-Network/manta-signer).