We've upgraded Manta Network's staking mechanism and now leverage Ethereum's security and ecosystem.

The staking system now operates with two primary roles:
- Node Operators: Entities that run Manta nodes to secure the network.
- Token Delegators: Token holders who delegate their MANTA tokens (ERC-20 now) to node operators and contribute in securing the network further, earning rewards in the process.

Staking your tokens as a token delegator does not require any dedicated hardware - you can interact with the network via our [staking dashboard](https://app.manta.network/manta/stake) to delegate your MANTA tokens.

Similar to other Layer 1 blockchains, block producers are selected out of a set of candidates based on the total MANTA stake backing each specific block producer candidate. In addition, users who don't wish to run their own nodes can instead *delegate* their MANTA tokens to an existing node operator and gain a share of its rewards.

## What does this mean for MANTA holders

1. Network Security and Efficiency: High-performing node operators selected through MANTA token delegation create a secure and efficient.
2. Decentralization: Multiple independent node operators ensures high censorship resistance.
3. Yield Generation: You can generate yield on your MANTA by participating in staking rewards.

## Okay, so how do I start staking?

You have two routes to stake your MANTA:

### 1. Become a Token Delegator

All you need is some MANTA and our delegation dApp. This option is accessible to every Manta community member regardless of technical expertise.
Follow this link find a guide on [how to delegate your MANTA tokens](Delegation/dApp%20Overview).

### 2. Become a Node Operator

To become a node operator, you'll need:

- Technical experience with running blockchain nodes
- Dedicated hardware
- A large amount of MANTA tokens, significantly larger than required for delegation

Node operators can potentially earn higher rewards, but the role they play requires keeping a close eye on network updates, along with other actions that increase the threshold for this network role.

If you're interested, you can find more information about this path [in the node operator section](../Collation/Overview).

## Permission Participation for Node Operators

In the spirit of true decentralization, become a node operator on Manta Network is a permissionless process and does not require approval or whitelisting. Anyone with the necessary technical skills and MANTA tokens is free to participate.

Learn more about the incentive mechanism for node operators on the [Rewards](Rewards) page.

## Token Delegation Mechanics

By delegating tokens to active Manta node operators, you:

- Vote for the node operators you trust to perform well
- Help secure the network by contributing to the effectiveness of the consensus mechanism
- Earn a share of the rewards generated by the node operators

Please note that you can delegate your tokens to one or more node operators, and you're free to re-delegate your tokens at any time.

We advise reading through the [Rules](Rules) of token delegation and participating as a node operator before moving forward.